1	绪论
1.1	论文的研究背景
智能移动设备的出现，触发了不断推动更高的数据速率。引起了一种媒体消费转向移动设备的强劲趋势。市场竞争压力不断挑战无线连接运营商创造创新技术，以便传送日益增长的移动数据容量，并能在本已稀缺的无线电频谱下满足不断增长的更快的移动数据服务需求。今天的无线蜂窝网络，比如LTE网络，已经以非常高的频谱效率运行，为进一步实际的和符合成本效益的改进留下很少余地。在当今移动应用中，小小区被认为是通过提高频率复用或区域频谱效率，达到更加雄心勃勃的数据传输速率发挥了举足轻重的作用[1]。Extremely-densely deployed small cells towards so called hyper-dense heterogeneous networks are therefore one of the main solutions to the challenge.目前，蜂窝小小区网络无一例外工作在授权频段。因此，网络容量最终的上限是由这些授权频段的可用性决定的。所以，实现小小区的全部潜力的一个关键要素是引入一种新的技术，使小小区可以越过有限的授权频谱运营。
人们非常希望有一种低成本的解决方案，整合几个现有的网络资源（被分配给不同服务的授权或免授权资源）到一个单一的移动融合网络。目前，现有的网络像蜂窝网络（例如，LTE工作在授权频段）及无线局域网络（WLAN）（例如，Wi-Fi工作在免授权频段）独立地运营在不同类型的频段上。
1.2	管控要求
无线电频谱监管机构如美国联邦通信委员会（FCC）使用多种机制，使频谱可用于通过授权和免授权（没有执照的）频谱的无线服务。一些授权的频率被指定用于商业用途，而另一些免授权频谱由公共安全机构分配使用。授权频谱允许在特定的地理位置独立使用某些特定的频率和频道。对于被指定为免授权的或非授权的频谱，用户可以在没有FCC许可下运营，但是必须遵守由FCC 第15部分标准规定的约束（如，在某些频带的最大发射功率限制是17 dBm/MHz）。然而，免授权频段的用户没有专属频谱，并会受到干扰。Apparently, given the power limits placed on transmitters, unlicensed spectrum would only be applicable to small cells.
在某些地区，如欧盟，日本和印度，为了使运营在相同免授权频段的不同无线系统之间更好的共存（例如，无线网络连接，蓝牙），执行“先侦听后传输”（LBT）规则。LBT媒体接入机制规定发射机需要等待它自己的发射顺序，如果有证据表明，另一个发射机正在使用当前的信道。The LBT medium access rule prevents a transmitter from continuous transmission. Rather, it requires the transmitter to periodically check for other occupants such that it does not impact other occupants.
In particular, the LBT medium access rule (ETSI EN 301893) requires that a transmitter wait for its turn if there is evidence that another transmitter is using the channel. 一种被称为空闲信道评估（CCA）过程用于确定该信道是否可用于传输数据。CCA在发送数据前检测信道活动的接收能量，并且最小的CCA观测时间是20微妙。 CCA下的基本假设是，被发送的数据包携带信号，其信号强度或接收信号强度指示（RSSI）高到足以超过一个阈值。如果RSSI值被检测到超过CCA阈值，则该信道假定为正在使用。Otherwise, the transmitter can transmit for duration equal to the channel occupancy time and at a bandwidth at least, e.g., 80% of the total bandwidth, which imposes limits on the maximum and minimum duration, and minimum frequency band occupancy of a transmission burst. Specifically, two types of LBT mechanisms are defined according to the transmission structure.
The frame-based transmission has a deterministic timeline. Transmission can only happen at specific times with maximum duration of 10 ms as depicted in Figure 2 (a). As a result, the CCA window has to be fixed as well. An idle period of more than 5% channel occupancy time is required, which leaves an opportunity for other competitors to access the channel. On the contrary, for load-based transmission [see Figure 2 (b)], the transmission time is not fixed. The CCA is performed continuously without abiding any frame boundaries until succeeds. At this time, a random backoff timer is set off to perform an extended CCA to introduce randomness among competitors. Transmission starts for duration up to 13 ms as soon as the timer expires.

 
Figure 2 Illustration of frame-based and load-based LBT. (a) Frame–based LBT, where transmission obeys a fixed timeline with a constant period T. CCA is performed before each transmission. An idle time of no less than 5% of channel occupancy time is required. The duration of CCA is fixed (e.g., 20 ) regardless of the outcome. A successful CCA warrants the transmission, whereas a failed CCA cancels the transmission. (b) Load-based LBT, where the CCA duration is random, resulting in a variable transmission timeline. The variability is due to the random backoff. In addition, the potential interruption from other systems (not shown) may cause CCA to fail (shown), resulting in extensions in its duration.


1.3	免授权频谱介绍
免授权频谱是指在满足政府部门（如国家无线电管理委员会）无线电管制下，不需要政府授权就能直接使用的频谱资源,Wi-Fi 是部署在免授权频段的典型技术。
More spectrum is apparently the ultimate solution, and is needed more than ever. Freeing up more licensed spectrum, e.g., the GSM bands in 300-900 MHz bands is the wireless industry’s top priority, but we also need to look into higher spectrum bands beyond the limited licensed spectrum, such as the spectrum-rich 5 GHz unlicensed band (see Figure 1).
Although, technically speaking, 2.4 GHz unlicensed band can also be used, 5 GHz has been the main focus considering the wider spectrum availability.
 
Figure 1 Channelization of the 5 GHz license-exempt band. The green-colored channels are unlicensed bands with minimum bandwidth of 20 MHz that are currently mainly used by Wi-Fi, of which the channels in dark green require the dynamic frequency selection spectrum-sharing mechanism to ensure coexistence with radar systems. TDWR channels (Channels 120, 124, and 128) are Terminal Doppler Weather Radar channels that are not allowed to be used for other purposes.

1.4	 WIFI与LTE通信特点概述
蜂窝系统和无线局域网络（WLAN）系统采用从根本上不同的基础架构，以应付不同的信道属性，并实现不同的目标。工作在授权频谱的蜂窝系统有高频谱效率，可靠性和可预测性的数据服务性能，和强健的移动性的特点，而工作在免授权频段的大多数WLAN系统通常具有低成本效益和灵活部署的特点，但往往是低频谱效率和缺乏对服务质量（QoS）的控制。
简单的把LTE和Wi-Fi组合起来，创建一种载波无线混合系统，在整体资源（频谱和移动设备的电池）使用效率方面显然是“次优”的。因为LTE和Wi-Fi是两个完全不同的技术和系统，使得网络和移动设备间的交互工作更加复杂。此外，从两种不同的技术产生了两套不可共享的硬件系统，使得移动设备的实施更加复杂化。因此，迫切需要寻找一种有效的移动通信方案。
 

1.5	免授权频谱通信特点概述及研究现状
鉴于LTE和Wi-Fi完全不同的技术和系统，难于构建无线混合系统实现网络和移动设备间的交互工作。一个自然的选择可能仅仅是将LTE扩展到免授权频谱，融合授权和非授权频段以提供一个无缝扩展的更大的LTE网络。这个聚合网络允许具有相同技术的授权和免授权频谱之间的数据流通过一个单一的核心网络的进行无缝切换，同时采用相同的认证，操作和管理系统，相同的采集，接入，注册，寻呼和移动过程。这意味着减少开销，提高系统性能，并加强了整体网络容量。接下来的问题是如何将蜂窝技术应用在免授权频段，利用免授权频谱可广泛普及的，带宽丰富的，免授权的优势;以及如何在不可靠的免执照频谱提供可靠的移动服务。 
事实上，将目前的蜂窝系统扩展到免授权频段带来一些严峻的技术挑战。在蜂窝系统中，网络拥有自己的专属频谱。因此，保证了无线电资源的使用和免遭不受控干扰的威胁。蜂窝系统允许发送和接收过程被组织成一种连续的，遵循确定时间的高效帧结构。这种基于帧的结构，使得一个网络可以连续地利用资源，并有效地管理它们，而不需要监视同信道的活动或让步于来自其他系统的传输。唯一的干扰来自它的“友好”的，合作的，相邻的属于同一网络的小区，这种干扰可以通过网络规划[2]或小区间干扰协调来缓和[3], [4]。与此相反，在免授权频段资源的利用是没有保障的。资源实际上通过竞争模式的LBT机制利使用，例如，分布式协调功能（DCF）。其结果是，发送/接收结构不固定或不确定而是机会驱动的，这种模式被称为基于负载的结构。 在非授权频谱执行类似LTE一样的传输结构并满足严格的QoS要求是非常困难的，这种对蜂窝服务所必需的QoS要求难以得到保证。因此，这两种不兼容的媒体访问机制和传输结构，以及不同的监管规则是解决QoS要求的关键所在。所以这是本文研究的重点。
1.5.1	LTE-U通信
作为一种补充工具，补充在非授权频谱上的蜂窝系统正日益受到移动运营商的考虑，以增加他们的无线服务和解决方案。在2014年，一个LTE-U论坛由威瑞森电信，阿尔卡特，爱立信，高通和三星共同创建[ ]。此动机是使LTE能够利用5GHz频段大量的可用频谱。The motivation was to facilitate carrier aggregation by way of unlicensed spectrum to enable the LTE technology to utilize the vast amount of available spectrum in the less crowded 5GHz band [6], so that users can experience the benefit of higher-efficiency LTE technology in the 5GHz ultra-wide spectrum that is currently mainly used by Wi-Fi. 如图1中的描述，在5GHz有多达500 MHz的频谱目前主要用于Wi-Fi。
In addition to advantages in channel coding, reference signal, and control channel designs, LTE possesses certain unique features that Wi-Fi does not have. Indeed, LTE systems have a centralized scheduler that efficiently manages the use of spectrum to address both the overall network performance requirements and the specific needs of individual users. Particularly, it offers coordinated and synchronized scheduling of resources that can be distributed simultaneously among multiple users in both frequency division multiplexing (FDM) and time division multiplexing (TDM) fashions, whereas Wi-Fi tries to ensure that only one user is present in a channel at a time to avoid interference between users. Inter-cell interference in LTE is coordinated over X2 interface, providing better cell-edge user experience and overall system capacity. In addition, LTE has more efficient link adaptation features such as hybrid ARQ for adapting to and recovering from channel errors.
However, direct deployment of LTE in the regions with the LBT requirements is prohibitive since a cellular system like LTE does not have the LBT capability.禁止在区域直接部署LBT要求的LTE的原因有很多。一个最简单的原因是，一些LTE参考信号，如CRS，都必须在一个连续时间传输，即使不存在数据传输，这种模式违反了LBT信道占用时间的要求，即禁止持续发送和对作为突发传输的最大持续时间的限制。在本文中我们将加以详细讨论。
在目前阶段（也就是第1阶段），LTE-U论坛侧重于没有LBT需求的（例如：美国，韩国，中国），无需修改LTE PHY / MAC标准[5]的快速部署市场。The deployment scenarios include LTE downlinks operating on unlicensed spectrum that contains multiples of contiguous 20 MHz bands. The LTE network with an uplink and downlink anchored on the licensed spectrum (less or equal to 20 MHz) for control provides reliability, mobility, and coverage, whereas the unlicensed spectrum is solely for the purpose of boosting the downlink data service. The “licensed-spectrum grade” control signaling provides additional significant performance gain of LTE-U over Wi-Fi.
提出了LTE与Wi-Fi系统在5GHz免授权频段公平，友好共存运营的若干机制。例如，信道选择方法简单地寻找那些没有Wi-Fi活动存在的一个最干净信道。它监视处于持续进行状态的信道，并且在需要的情况下选择和切换到更合适的信道上。该选择方案是为了避免在一个相对缓慢的时间尺度与Wi-Fi系统同频道工作。 In the event that no clean channel is available, this algorithm shares the channel with Wi-Fi systems based on 10s to 100s of msec carrier sensing of co-channel Wi-Fi activities. 倘若没有空闲的信道可用，该算法使LTE与WIFI系统共享在以10秒到100秒的毫秒载波侦听同信道的Wi-Fi活动的信道上。

1.5.2	LAA
最近，3GPP已经批准了一项工作项目，在具有或者不具有LBT要求的范围内规范非授权频谱LTE下行[6]. 将LTE扩展到免授权频段（例如，5GHz频段）已经正式开始作为Release 13（和其中的参考文献）的一部分[7]。目前，标准化还处于收集需求，可行性研究和评价方法的早期阶段。该研究集中于“授权辅助接入”（LAA），其非授权频谱接入是通过授权频谱接入辅助完成的[8]-[11]。 LAA通过次要载波访问非授权频谱，主要载波访问授权频谱。最近提出了一个加强的LAA新工作项目，其将作为标准今后工作的一部分。虽然一直至今没有指定具体详细的传输结构，主要的设计准则是采用Wi-Fi的基于负载的结构，而不是LTE的基于帧的结构，以实现LBT机制。其缺点是，在结构上的差异引起许可和未许可频谱之间执行频谱辅助操作交互工作的难度，以及难于在相邻小区之间执行干扰协调，例如小区间干扰协调（ICIC）工作的难度。这些交互工作通常需要小区间固定的同步帧结构。
In order to extend LTE downlink to both non-LBT and LBT markets, changes therefore must be introduced to LTE PHY/MAC in order to meet the regulatory requirements on unlicensed spectrum in various regions. In the absence of a new coexistence mechanism, LAA may potentially lead to unfair spectrum sharing with Wi-Fi. Therefore, the new PHY/MAC features must also address the coexistence with Wi-Fi systems as well as among LAA networks of different operators.

还有一种可能性，在未授权频谱下不通过授权频谱的辅助部署LTE（即无授权辅助接入）［1］。这种模型受到挑战并且没有得到好评，这在于担心，在Wi-Fi存在的情况下，没有授权频谱辅助的免授权频谱LTE的性能增益是非常有限的，同时一个LTE调制解调器的成本要比Wi-Fi高得多。
1.5.3	LTE-C
在本文中，我们采用了基于蜂窝系统框架的概念性的详细设计，自此之后被称为LTE-C（概念上），以便更好地详细阐述文献[6]背后的概念和思想，和对传统的LTE传输结构监管规则的潜在影响。LTE-C包含传统的LTE-A（LTE　Advanced）系统，以及一个新的工作在免授权频段的LTE系统，以下称为LTE-ｕ（免授权的，小写的“ｕ”是为了与LTE-U论坛区别开来）。我们也将利用这一设计，在一个LTE传输结构下展示如何实现LBT以便跟WIFI系统共存，并且使得授权和免授权频谱之间，相邻小区之间更加连贯的交互。不失一般性和为了方便讨论，我们只在下行链路讨论。
